docs(plex) add community migration guide (#6692)
truecharts/charts: charts/stable/plex/docs/migration_guide.md

![truetool-mount-list](./img/truetool-mount-list.png)

To mount the directory just enter the correct number...so for me I have to enter `51`. Verify the number you are entering is for plex-config.

You will get a unmount command similar to this:

```console
zfs set mountpoint=legacy root/ix-applications/releases/plex-config/volumes/pvc-af2b9242-ecf6-4659-ace4-d601211cf448 && rmdir /mnt/truetool/plex-config
```

The new plex app is mounted in a dir for example `/mnt/truetool/plex-config`.

Change the working directory to the mounted dir for the new app:

```console
cd /mnt/truetool/plex-config
```

Check if you're in the right location by running:

```console
ls
```

You should only see a single dir called `Library`.

Delete this dir from the new app.

```console
rm -r Library
```

Now grab the path for your dataset that holds your plex config.

For example...my path would be `/mnt/tank/configs/plex`.

Run the `ls` command on the dir to verify that its correct and you see a single dir called `Library`.

```console
ls /mnt/tank/configs/plex
```

If everything is set you can proceed to run the rsync copy command to the mounted PVC location.

```console

>   rsync -rav Library /mnt/truetool/plex-config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rsync -rav Library /mnt/truetool/plex-config
```

# Community Migration Guide

:::warn

This guide does not fall under support, use at your own risk. You can create a thread in our discord channel [#📚・tc-scale-apps](https://discord.gg/a5fj3FJ9Mx) for basic support for the guide itself.

:::

> This guide will walk you through on migrating your plex config data from a _old_ to the new plex instance. IE official to truecharts or truecharts to truecharts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through on migrating your plex config data from an _old_ to a new plex instance.
```

The first thing you need to do is go to **settings** and then **Library**.

- Disable `Empty trash automatically after every scan` checkbox if its enabled.

Go to **Settings** -> **General** and `Sign Out` of your server completely.

> In scale, go to **apps** -> **Installed Applications** turn the _old_ app **off**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In TrueNAS Scale, go to **Apps** -> **Installed Applications** and stop the _old_ app.
```

Follow the sub section depending on how your app config was stored.

- App config on PVC -> [Backing up App Data From PVC](#migrating-data-from-pvc)
- App config on HostPath -> [Accessing App Data HostPath](#migrating-data-from-hostpath)

> - App config on HostPath(ix-applications) -> [Accessing App Data HostPath IX-Applications](#migrating-data-from-hostpath-ix-applications)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- App config on HostPath(ix-applications) -> [Accessing App Data HostPath iX-Applications](#migrating-data-from-hostpath-ix-applications)
```

## Migrating Data from PVC

> To access the old app's data from **PVC**, we are going to use [**truetool**](https://github.com/truecharts/truetool#how-to-install) mount flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the old app's data from **PVC**, we are going to use [**truetool**](https://github.com/truecharts/truetool#how-to-install) `mount` flag.
```

> Go to **system settings** -> **shell**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to **System Settings** -> **Shell**.
```

Make sure truetool is installed and active (refer to the link above for the how to guide) before running the following commands:

```console
truetool --mount
```

```console
1
```

You will get list similar like this for example.

![truetool-mount-list](./img/truetool-mount-list.png)

To mount the directory just enter the correct number...so for me I have to enter `51`. Verify the number you are entering is for plex-config.

you will get a unmount command similar to this:

```console
zfs set mountpoint=legacy root/ix-applications/releases/plex-config/volumes/pvc-af2b9242-ecf6-4659-ace4-d601211cf448 && rmdir /mnt/truetool/plex-config
```

The old plex app is mounted in a dir for example `/mnt/truetool/plex-config`.

The above assumes your app is named `plex`, if its not the dir `name` will be **different**.

```console
cd /mnt/truetool/plex-config
```

> run this command to verify you see a single dir called **Library**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run this command to verify you see a single dir called **Library**.
```

```console
ls
```

Create a temp dataset in **storage** -> **datasets** for your old app plex config with the follow perms as **apps** since its our default user and group for most of our charts:

![perms](./img/media-dataset-perms.png)

Replace this command's path with your **OWN** `pool` and `dataset` name.

```console
rsync -rav Library /mnt/POOL/DATASET
```

Check the dir if it contains a dir called `Library` if it does then unmount the PVC.

```console
truetool --mount
```

```console
2
```

You can delete the original app at this point.

Please move on to [Migrating App Data to the New App](#migrating-app-data-to-the-new-app).

## Migrating Data from HostPath

If your plex config is available on your own dataset, validate its perms.

![perms](./img/media-dataset-perms.png)

Follow the prerequisites and then uninstall the original app. If the perms are good you can move on to [migrating to the new app](#migrating-app-data-to-the-new-app).

> ### Migrating Data from HostPath-ix-applications

Reviewer 2: Its called ixVolumes

This section is only for the official app where users didn't specify their own hostpath.

![bad-hostpath-plex](./img/plex-config-volume-hostpath.png)

::: warn

Be very cautious while in this particular dataset. Run the commands carefully.

:::

To quickly get the correct directory run the following commands:

```console
cd /mnt/POOL/ix-applications
```

```console
find /mnt/POOL/ix-applications -name Preferences.xml
```

You should see an output like so -> `/mnt/POOL/ix-applications/releases/plex/volumes/ix_volumes/ix-plex_config/Library/Application Support/Plex Media Server/Preferences.xml`

We are only interested for this location as its the start of the config dir for plex -> `/mnt/POOL/ix-applications/releases/plex/volumes/ix_volumes/ix-plex_config/Library`.

> Create a temp dataset in **storage** -> **datasets** for your old app plex config with the follow perms as **apps** since its our default user and group for most of our charts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a temp dataset in **Storage** -> **Datasets** for your old app plex config with the follow perms as **apps** since its our default user and group for most of our charts:
```

![perms](./img/media-dataset-perms.png)

Go back to the system shell and replace this command's path with your **OWN** `path`, `pool` and `dataset` name.

```console
rsync -rav /mnt/POOL/ix-applications/releases/plex/volumes/ix_volumes/ix-plex_config/Library /mnt/POOL/DATASET
```

Verify if the the temp dataset contains the `Library` dir by running this command.

```console
ls /mnt/POOL/DATASET
```

If it does please move on to [migrate to the new app](#migrating-app-data-to-the-new-app).

## Migrating App Data to the New App

If the new plex app is not installed yet, please do so now. Verify that the **new** app can go active with just the defaults for now.

> If it works, don't sign in yet, simply turn off the app and then go to **system settings** -> **shell**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it works, don't sign in yet, simply turn off the app and then go to **System Settings** -> **Shell**.
```

We're going to mount the new plex app config data. Run the following commands in the shell.

```console
truetool --mount
```

```console
1
```

You will get list similar like this for example.

![truetool-mount-list](./img/truetool-mount-list.png)

To mount the directory just enter the correct number...so for me I have to enter `51`. Verify the number you are entering is for plex-config.

> you will get a unmount command similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will get a unmount command similar to this:
```

```console
zfs set mountpoint=legacy root/ix-applications/releases/plex-config/volumes/pvc-af2b9242-ecf6-4659-ace4-d601211cf448 && rmdir /mnt/truetool/plex-config
```

The new plex app is mounted in a dir for example `/mnt/truetool/plex-config`.

Change the working directory to the mounted dir for the new app:

```console
cd /mnt/truetool/plex-config
```

Check if you're in the right location by running:

```console
ls
```

You should only see a single dir called `Library`.

Delete this dir from the new app.

```console
rm -r Library
```

> now grab the path for your dataset that holds your plex config.
> 
> for example...my path would be `/mnt/tank/configs/plex`.
> 
> run the `ls` command on the dir to verify that its correct and you see a single dir called `Library`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now grab the path for your dataset that holds your plex config.

For example...my path would be `/mnt/tank/configs/plex`.

Run the `ls` command on the dir to verify that its correct and you see a single dir called `Library`.
```
